---
title: "Something awesome is born!"
date: "8 April, 2025"
banner:
    file: "decimator-is-born.png"
    alt: "a newborn child to represent decimator being 'born', surrounded by tiktok and youtube icons"
---

## what is decimator?
decimator is a free, private and simple to use video downloader. you can download any media from sites such as youtube, tiktok, facebook and vimeo.

## why it was created
it was created to help stuents at STA to easily and safely download videos off of the internet for educational purposes.

## why is it called decimator?
being a part of Halo at STA i learned a few things about the video engineering world.
in live production devices called [decimators](https://decimator.com/) are used to convert and scale video signals.

this application does the same, but for online internet videos. it converts hls videos streamed on the internet into downloadable video files.

previously this project was called *parsons downloader* which was fitting, however dedicating it to a single mediocre teacher at STA was shallow.
therefore i switched the name of the project to something that rolls off the tounge easier.

it also just sounds way cooler.

*~ still reading? that's impressive. ~*

## app improvements
*(mostly nerd talk)*
- moved from [svelte](https://svelte.dev) 4 to 5
- switched from using ffmpeg on the backend to [libav](https://github.com/libav/libav) on the client side to encode videos.
- majorly improved the reliability and versatility of the downloader. now can be used on sites other than just youtube.
- redesigned the frontend to use shadcn-svelte.
- added more error messages to describe processing issues even better whenever possible.
- other tiny but mighty changes.

*~ 🦆🔜 ~*

## its open source man!
don't believe me when i say it's private? [check out the code on github.](https://github.com/MaxBroome/decimator)
you can even host your own version if i stop supporting this project at some point.

## thank you!
thanks to the community and teachers at STA for everything. this is my tiny way of giving back to the next generation of saints.

i hope you enjoy and use this project

\~ max broomfield